Advantageous Gluttony (1)
A character with this Advantage may 
consume two units of Food to gain +1 maximum Hit Point for the next six 
hours. This extra Hit Point is not a Bestow, and stacks with other Hit Point 
sources. 

*Call of Freedom (1)
Restraints cannot hold you. You may use this 
Advantage once per Renew to call “Resist” against the “Bind”, “Paralyze”, 
or “Root” Effects, or to escape from mundane bindings such as manacles. 

*Caustic Blood (2)
Whenever you take 3 or more points of Damage from 
a single weapon hit, or suffer the “Maim”, “Lethal”, or “Death” Effect 
from a melee attack, you may call “Return 2 Damage by Poison” as your 
blood sprays out and burns your attacker. You still take the effect of the hit. 

Crushing Strength (1, 2, 3)
You may use one “2 Crushing” melee 
attack per Renew per point you spent on this Advantage. 

Durability (1)
Once per Renew, you may call “Resist” to a “Maim” Effect. 

*Elemental Fury (1, 2, 3)
You may throw one “2 Damage by 
<Element> burst per Renew per point of this Advantage you take. To use 
this ability, you may gather as many packets as you wish, and throw them all 
at once in a group. You must choose one of the following elements when 
you take this Advantage: Air, Earth, Fire, or Water. 

*Elemental Resistance (1)
Choose one element to be resistant to. This 
ability lets you call “Resist” against that element (Air, Earth, Fire or Water 
only) once per Renew. 

Evil Eye (1)
Once per Day, you may curse someone with an annoying but not incapacitating effect.
You may use any on page 103 or submit other curses to the Staff. You may not curse during combat, as this takes 
about a 60 count of staring at someone. In addition, you may “Purge Curse” once per Day. 

Feign Death (1)
Once per Day, you may fall down in a deathlike state. While in this state, which may last for up to 
30 minutes, you cannot be harmed in any way, but cannot move or speak. Call “No Effect”. 

*Forest Ally (1)
You may use this advantage when out in the wild, out of town, outside of any walls. You may throw 
one “Bind by Magic” packet and one “Root by Magic” packet per Renew, as the trees rise up and snare your foes. 

*Healing Blood (1)
You have powerful blood, possibly the result of vampiric ancestry. Twice per Renew, you may 
use a few drops of your blood to provide the “Heal 2” Effect to an injured person. If any individual character receives 
this healing Effect from you more than 3 times, ever, you must also state “Afflict with Blood Bond”. 

Hunter’s Senses (1)
You may use your senses to call “Detect ___ “, a total of three times per Renew. You may 
choose any combination of “Animal”, “Living”, “Undead”, or “Vermin”. 

*Natural Armor (2)
You always count as wearing 1 Armor Point, which adds to your Hit Points. This Armor Point 
is NOT cumulative with any other armor you may wear. 

Old Blood (1)
Once per Day, you may call "Detect Fae". 

*Poison Spittle (2)
Once per Day, you may lick a blade to coat it with venom. You must call “Doom by Poison” on 
your next swing. If you miss, or the target blocks your attack, the ability is wasted. 

Purity (1)
Once per Renew, you may call “Resist” against a “by Poison” Effect. 

Skin Changer (2)
Once per Day, you may don a mask, transforming yourself into a horrible beast for up to one 
hour. During this time, in addition to your normal Gifts, Occupation, and Skills, you may use 30” Claws (see page 41) 
and gain 2 maximum Hit Points. In addition, you may call “Maim” twice with your claws, and may call “Disengage” 3 
times. However, you may not speak or wear armor during this time, and many will not react well to your 
transformation. 

*Stonefast (1)
Once per Day, you may plant your feet and call “Stonefast”. 

Stubborn Courage (1)
Once per Day, you may take up a defensive position (a roughly 10 foot area) and resolve to 
hold it to the last. As long as you do not leave your post, your current and maximum Hit Points are increased by 8. 
This stacks with any armor you might be wearing. You may not use this ability in duels of any sort. 

Talent (1, 2, 3)
You have a skill or knack that does not depend on your Occupation. You must be able to explain how 
you came by this talent. 
* 1 Point: Any one Minor skill. 
* 2 Points: Any one Standard skill. 
* 3 Points: Any one Major skill. 
If you purchase a given skill with Talent, you may not purchase that skill again with Moonstone (unless it can be 
purchased multiple times). Further, you may not purchase a skill which is listed as Unavailable. 

*Treewalk (1)
Once per Day, while in the wild (outside of town, outside of any walls, and off of any cleared path), 
you may merge yourself with a tree, and remain so for up to 30 minutes. While merged, you must remain in contact 
with the tree and may not use any abilities or weapons, but cannot be harmed in any way. Call “No Effect”. 

Undead Bane (1)
You may throw two “5 Damage to Undead” packets per Renew. 

*Witchblood (1, 2, 3, 4)
Each Event at check in, you may roll on a chart that gives you small, random magical powers. 
Beware though, many are not beneficial. See Appendix 4, Witchblood, on page 145 for the chart