*Anathema (1)
The kiss of poison is deadly to you. Any “by Poison” Effect you suffer instead causes you to suffer 
“Doom”. 

Blind (4)
You cannot use weapons, run, throw packets, or read. You must role play this at all times. 

Bloodlust (3)
Once you take damage, you are in a fight to the end. You will not run, retreat, negotiate, break off the 
battle, surrender or take prisoners. If you go more than a minute without encountering a new enemy, you can role play 
working your way down from your rage. 

Carouser (1)
You must always join any drinking, carousing or gambling, or partying that is going on, even if it is not 
a good idea. You may not stop gambling until the gaming is over, or your funds are exhausted. If there is no 
celebration on any given night, you must start one. You gain the Carouser trait. 

Cowardice (2)
When the going gets rough, you run for it, leaving your friends in the lurch. You must flee from any 
fight that looks like it’s going badly, even if only to hide in a building. 

Creature of the Night (2)
You dislike sunlight and must wear a broad brimmed hat, hood, or other protection 
during the day, as well as staying inside as much as you can. In addition, you lose 1 Maximum Hit Point between dawn 
and the change of day at 6 PM. In the event you would be reduced to 0 maximum Hit Points, you instead are reduced 
to 1 and cannot run, jump, or shout. 

Divine Disfavor: God of the Wild (2)
You have done something to anger the god of the Wild. Miracles of 
Resurrection will not provide the Wild resurrection (typically once per year). 

Divine Disfavor: Goddess of Mercy (4)
You have done something to anger the goddess of Mercy. Miracles of 
Resurrection will not provide the Mercy resurrection (typically once per Event). Note that this may result in a shortlived character! 

Divine Disfavor: Lord of Justice (1)
You have done something to anger the Lord of Justice, or you died before 
your tenure in the Mystwood, and were mysteriously returned. Miracles of Resurrection will not provide the Justice 
resurrection (typically once ever). 

Eternal Foe: Fae (1)
One of the great non-human powers of the world, the Fae, senses you as a great enemy, and 
will go to great lengths to harass, hunt and even kill you, targeting you above all others in any battle. You gain the trait 
“Fae Foe” if you have this Disadvantage. 

Eternal Foe: Chaos or Undeath (2)
One of the great non-human powers of the world senses you as a great enemy, 
and will go to great lengths to harass, hunt and kill you, targeting you above all others in any battle. Choose Chaos or 
Undead to be your Eternal Foe. You gain the trait “Chaos Foe”, or “Undead Foe” if you have this Disadvantage. 

Excessive Curiosity (1)
You can’t leave any mystery unexplored. Examples: If you possess Hedge Magic and the 
appropriate components, you must attempt to make an item when confronted with a matrix. If you encounter a book, 
you must attempt to read it. Etc. 

Forgetful (1)
At least once per Event, you must forget something of importance. You should role play this. 

Greed (1)
Gold and other valuables bring out the worst in you. You will not spend money if you can avoid it, and 
must go to almost any length short of directly harming yourself or others to obtain any money on offer. 

Gullible (1)
Reasonable attempts to trick or mislead you always work. You always assume people are telling the truth, 
unless they are an obvious monster or evil creature. 

Horribly Disfigured (1)
You have suffered some nasty injury or illness in the past. You must wear significant 
makeup or prosthetics to show this- scar wax, rigid collodion, a partial mask, or the like. 

Maimed (3)
You may only use one of your arms. This cannot be cured with “Purge Maim”- it is permanent unless 
you change your disadvantages. Even so, you should come with up an excellent story! 

Mostly Illiterate (1)
You cannot read, but may sign your name if needed. You do not possess the Literacy Free Skill. 

Nearsighted (1)
You cannot use any ability or weapon that targets someone more than 5 feet away. You cannot 
identify others at a distance either, or “Resist” any Effect that comes from more than 5 feet away. 

Pacifist (2)
You won't harm another human, no matter how tainted or warped, under any circumstances, though 
animals, daemons, monsters, undead and so on are fine. 

Perpetual Gloom (1)
You are always dour and cynical, and must role play seeing the dark side of things. You must 
respond with “No Effect” to the “Renew” Effect when it is delivered “By my Voice”. 

Phobia (1 per Phobia)
You are deathly afraid of one of the following and must avoid it if at all possible. Choose one 
of the following: Chaos, Darkness, Enclosed Places, Fae, Fire, Large Animals, Nobles, Spell Casters, or Undead. 
While in the presence of your fear, you cannot think straight, and may not use any abilities that require you to call an 
Effect, including Resists, spells, etc. 

*Raging Hunger (1)
If you do not consume at least one unit of Food 
every six hours, you become weak. Until you consume 1 Unit of Food, you 
lose 1 Maximum Hit Point. If this would cause you to be reduced to 0 
maximum Hit Points, you instead are reduced to 1 and cannot run, jump, or 
shout. 

Sickly (3)
You “bleed out” and move from Unstable to Dead after only a 
60 count Unstable. 

Slow (2)
You may not run. 

Spendthrift (1)
You must always spend any money you have at the first 
opportunity. You may not give treasure to others though- you like spending 
money. Basically you must spend all your money by the end of the Event. 

Tainted (1)
You start with (or gain) 3 Marks of Chaos. Seven marks of 
Chaos will cause your character to become an NPC. Once In Game, look in 
the Book of Woe for the full description of this affliction: “Chaos Mark” 

Teetotaler (1)
You cannot gain a “Renew” by tavern or tavern keeper 
provided means (for example, drinking). 

Troublemaker (1)
You are always meddling and playing pranks on others. 

Truthfulness (2)
You are bound to never lie. 

Unwashed (1)
You are prone to getting sick. At the beginning of each 
Event, you must roll to discover what Affliction you will suffer from for the 
duration of the Event. Once In Game, look in the Book of Woe for the full 
description of this affliction. 

*Vulnerability (1)
Choose one of the four elements: Air, Earth, Fire, or 
Water. Your humors are imbalanced and this cannot be corrected. You take 
double damage from any Effect called by that element. 

*Wild Heart (1)
You are not comfortable with civilized things. Any “by 
Fire” Effect you suffer also causes the “Frenzy”. 