Alchemist 

Retain your Basic Occupation, plus add Production (one 
Chaos or Time) 

Requirements: Must have created at least ten different 
potions using the rules in Special Appendix Three. 50 crown 
for training and equipment. 

Masters of the subtle arts of potion making, Alchemists 
assist their communities through quietly making the love 
philtres, healing potions, and curatives that so many 
others need in their day to day professions. 
In some towns and villages, of course, the alchemist is 
looked on with suspicion, especially if they work with 
dangerous ingredients such as cinnabar or aqua regia. 

Barback 

Retain your Basic Occupation, plus add Income 5 and Sell 
Drinks 

Requirements: Must possess or have previously possessed 
Brewer, Tavern Keeper, or a similar Occupation that worked 
in or around a tavern. 

There are always times when the local tavernkeep is too 
busy for the demand- perhaps a party is going on, or the 
official tavern master is bleeding in a ditch somewhere, 
or there are simply too many thirsty souls. Barbacks can 
pick up the slack while these professionals are too busy. 

Guild Crafter 

Guild Wages, Livery (guild patch and visible tools of the 
trade). 
Retain your Basic Occupation, plus add +2 Craft Points to 
any one Craft Skill you possess. 

Requirements: You must submit an example of your skill, or 
present a tract or presentation on it, which must be 
approved by the guild. This Occupational Enhancement can 
only be appended to a basic Occupation, though a person 
with an advanced Occupation may still be a Guild Member. 

The cities and towns of Europa expect the craftspeople 
who dwell there to join a guild, to control prices and 
ensure that all are able to prosper by gaining business. 
Guilds also provide a sense of fellowship amongst 
crafters, and often the Guild is a powerful force amongst 
the populace. 

Master Crafter 

Guild Wages, Instruction, Livery (guild patch and visible 
tools of the trade), Masterwork, Retainer 1 
Retain Basic Occupations skills, plus add +4 Craft Points to 
any one Craft Skill you possess. 

Requirements: You must have been a Guild Crafter and 
must complete a masterwork acclaimed by your peers. This 
Advanced Occupation can only be appended to a Basic 
Occupation, though any character may be considered a 
Master Crafter of the Guild if they have proven themselves. 

The most successful crafters prove their skill by 
ascending to the rank of Guildmaster, capable of creating 
impressive new items and educating new guild members 
alike. 

Master Healer 

Retain your Basic Occupation, plus add Medicine. 

Requirements: Basic Occupation must possess Cure 
Affliction Skill, must have access to an Apothecary Craft Kit, 
100 crown to set up other necessary tools and reagents. 

Not everyone has the ability, opportunity or 
perseverance to become a doctor. These same folk, 
however, might be experts at applying herbs, brewing 
minor potions, and the like. Such people master the 
talents of the herbalist, hermit, folk healer, and the like, 
becoming skilled and famous in their small area of 
expertise. 

Town Guard Auxiliary 

Retain your Basic Occupation’s skills, plus Income (+5) and 
Livery (based on local Chapter) 

Requirements: Must be accepted into the Town Guard. This 
Advanced Occupation can only be appended to a Basic 
Occupation, though a person with an Advanced Occupation 
can still assist the Town Guard. 

There are many who would see to the defense of town 
and village, but who possess demanding jobs or 
community roles that preclude them from dedicating 
themselves to the Guard. These civic-minded individuals 
can become Auxiliaries, paid by the Guard and drawn up 
into service as needed.