Cantor 

Absolution, Bardic Voice 4, Divine Lore, Divine Spells, 
Entertainer, Grant Karma, News & Rumors, Religious 
Ceremony, Serene Contemplation 

Requirements: Must have been a bard, friar, lay cleric, or 
ordained priest in a previous Occupation. 

In larger, better organized churches, there are often 
songs and chants of prayer. The cantor is the priest who 
leads such prayers. In times of battle, they double as 
signallers and messengers. 

Captain of the Guard 

Duty 1 (reviewing the guard), Income 15, Improved 
Leadership (Town Guard), Livery (based on local Chapter), 
Patronage 1, Scribe 2, Warcaster, Weapon Specialization 
(any one Weapon Type), Weapon Use (Large Shield), Wear 
Armor 5 

Requirements: Must be appointed to the post. 

All guards, corporals, and gaolers in a town ultimately 
report to a Captain, appointed by a magistrate, mayor, or 
other worthy. The captain may be a guard himself, with 
high morals and ability, or may equally likely be a political 
appointee with little skill but the right connections. 

Friar 

Absolution, Divine Lore, Divine Spells, Grant Karma, News & 
Rumors, Pathfinding, Religious Ceremony 

Requirements: Must have been a Lay Cleric in a previous 
Occupation. Must renounce wealth and live frugally. 

A traveling, mendicant priest, often the only priest small 
villages ever see, friars wander from place to place 
ensuring that even the meanest serf sees a member of the 
Church who can hear their sins and grant them Karma. 

Inquisitor 

Battlemage, Divine Lore, Divine Spells, Leadership (anyone 
under your command in battle), Livery (icons of faith), Mage 
Lore, Slayer (Undead), Wear Armor 3 
and Information Gathering or Research 

Requirements: Writ from the Church to practice this 
Occupation, 300 crown of training and equipment. 

The Church has different priorities than secular lords, 
but still has need for warriors who are less rigid than 
Paladins and more able to root out and eradicate the 
devious foes of life and light who skulk among the 
populace, hiding amongst the goodly people. 

Knight Paladin 

Absolution, Battlemage, Blessed, Divine Lore, Divine Spells, 
Grant Karma, Income 10, Livery (your heraldry), Religious 
Ceremony, Retainers 1, Wear Armor 10 

Requirements: You must be a Knight Errant, Knight 
Penitent, or Knight Templar, or have previously possessed 
one of those Occupations. Further, you must have 
completed a Paladin’s quest for each of the three gods or 
be an Ordained Priest who is Knighted. 

Long ago, Navarre, Burgundy, the League, and great 
swathes of other lands were united in the throne of 
Charles the Great, known also as Carolus Magnus or 
Charlemagne. In Charlemagne's will, he left great chapter 
houses, fortresses, rich mills and tracts of lands to the 
stewardship of his favored knights. With this wealth 
came the understanding that they would forever work to 
bring humanity together. The Knights Paladin refused to 
swear themselves to Charlemagne's heirs, instead 
swearing themselves to the ideal of the Empire- that all 
mankind might come together beneath the rule of Law 
and Justice. The Knights Paladin protect those who sit 
on the thrones of nations as closely as they protect those 
who hold the holy offices of the Church. 
The mystical training of the Knights Paladin, as proven 
most clearly in their Quests of the Three Gods, gives 
them the education and connection to the gods necessary 
for absolution, and so the Church in most lands accounts 
the Knights Paladin as priests, even if they do not serve 
the Church officially. 

Knight Penitent 

Battlemage, Blessed, Divine Lore, Divine Spells, Income 10, 
Livery (your heraldry), Retainers 1, Wear Armor 8 

Requirements: You must be currently or formerly a Knight 
Errant, who has been accepted into the service of one 
branch of the Church, and renounced worldly things. 

After several wars with the Tripartites, many knights 
were disillusioned by waste and lack of honor. These 
knights formed a new order, the Knights Penitent, giving 
up the wealth and splendor associated with knighthood 
in exchange for the nobility of sacrifice and toil. Such 
knights often wander, some seeking heroic ends against 
great odds, others simply seeking a place in the world. 

Knight of the Realm 

Armstraining 4, Income (50), Improved Leadership (anyone 
wearing your colors), Livery (Your heraldry), Patronage 3, 
Retainers 6, Wear Armor 8 

Requirements: You must be invited to the Knights of the 
Realm and be a Knight Errant, Knight Paladin, Knight 
Penitent, or Knight Templar, or have previously possessed 
one of those Occupations. Further, you must be granted a 
fief of land by a noble or the Church. 

Most of the nations of Europa have a strong body of 
Knights of the Realm who hold the manors, organize 
and lead the armies, dispense justice, and otherwise 
comprise a lower nobility. The vast majority of the 
Knights of the Realm come from the ranks of the 
Knights Errant, having proved themselves twice- once as 
prospective Knights, and once as Errants. 

Knight Templar 

Battlemage, Leadership (any non-Knight sworn to aid you), 
Income 10, Livery (your heraldry), Mage Lore, Research, 
Retainers 1, Scribe 4, Wear Armor 6 

Requirements: You must be invited to the Knights Templar. 
Further, you must spend 500 crown for training and 
outfitting. 

The secretive order of the Knights Templaer are 
scholars, warriors, and magicians dedicated to fighting 
the supernatural foes of civilization wherever they can be 
found. Many of the Knights Templar come from 
nontraditional sources- not all were famous warriors or 
honorable squires before their knighting. 

Magistrate 

Bardic Voice 2, Commerce, Duty 1 (holding court), Income 
20, News & Rumors, Research, Retainers 3, Scribe 4 

Requirements: Must be appointed by a noble, or elected to 
the post by the populace. 

Most manors and villages rely on their local knight or 
lord for justice. When a lord is distant, or too busy with 
other matters, they may allow a village to elect a 
magistrate from amongst themselves. Magistrates are 
largely free to enact their own edicts and enforce law as 
they see fit, subject to the Codes Civitas and Justinian. 
Magistrates who abuse their power, though, seldom last 
long. 

Ordained Priest 

Absolution, Battlemage, Divine Lore, Divine Spells, Grant 
Karma, Income 10, Religious Ceremony, Serene 
Contemplation, Weapon Specialization (your choice of One 
Handed Blunt, One Handed Sword, Two Handed Blunt, or 
Two Handed Sword) Wear Armor 4 

Requirements: Must be ordained by the Church. 

The churches, shrines, monasteries and other places of 
holy sanctity in Europa are overseen by priests who have 
been appointed to them by the Church. Often former lay 
clerics who have found a true calling, such priests swear 
to uphold the tenets of the faith and serve the followers 
of their god. 

Tavern Master 

Buy/Sell 20, Cooking 2, Drinks on the House, Duty 2 
(minding the tavern), Income 10, News & Rumors, 
Patronage, Retainers 1, Sell Drinks, Tavern Share 

Requirements: You must possess the Deed to a building 
suitable for the housing of a Tavern. In addition, you must 
have kept a tavern as the Tavern Keeper profession for at 
least 1 year,and possess a Writ of Hospitality. 

A few lucky few tavern keepers find themselves 
successful enough, and thereby wealthy enough, to 
purchase their establishment from the former landlord. 
Such tavern masters are often among the most wealthy 
members of society, and are incredibly well connected to 
the comings and goings of their town. 

Witch Hunter 

Armstraining 2, Battlemage, Leadership (anyone under your 
command in battle), Mage Lore, Occupational Spells (page 
126), Set Trap, Slayer (Daemons), Wear Armor 4 
and Information Gathering or Research 

Requirements: Writ from a Lord to practice this occupation, 
300 crown of training and equipment. 

In a land of sorcerers, necromancers and vampires, 
Witch Hunters are well respected individuals indeed, and 
greatly sought after. A Witch Hunter’s writ is their only 
shield- the more powerful the lord (or Baron or Duke, 
etc.) who issued it, the more valuable it is, and of course 
the wording of the writ itself is important.