Absolver/Flagellant 

Absolution, Battle Rage, Blessed, Divine Lore, Improved 
Battle Rage, Iron Will, Livery (icons of faith), Toughness, 
Weapon Specialization (Flail), Weapon Use (Flail) 

Requirements: Must have previously been a Friar, Knight 
Penitent, Lay Cleric, or Penitent for at least a year, and be 
accepted to a cult of flagellants. Must renounce all worldly 
possessions, save for clothing and a hand weapon. 

The sins of the world are immense. Amongst the 
penitent, there are a few who seek to atone for all of 
humanity through their extreme devotion. These folk are 
the Absolvers. Often, priests and other holy folk come to 
them for advice on proper penance- though absolvers 
tend to err on the side of harsh stringency. 

Almoner 

Begging, Blessed, Buy/Sell 20, Cooking 2, Divine Lore, Duty 1 
(distribute money to the needy), Income 10 

Requirements: Must be either a Beggar or Lay Cleric for one 
year and accepted into the household/church of an 
Ordained Priest. 

It is true that many in Europa do not have the means to 
support themselves. In larger towns and cities, begging is 
rampant, and the downtrodden poor go hungry and 
unclothed. The Church, taking pity on these poor souls, 
hires almoners to both collect and distribute funds, food, 
and materials to the less fortunate. Often former beggars 
themselves, almoners take their role very seriously. 

Artist (Author/Gilder/Painter/Sculptor) 

Artistry, Income 10, Serene Contemplation 
one of Metalworking 4, Scribe 4, Sewing 4 or 
Woodworking 4 
and one of Commerce, Divine Lore, Engineering, Mage Lore, 
or Woodwise 

Requirements: Patronage. Must be approved by the Staff, 
based on art created in game prior to taking the Artist 
occupation. 

Artists- true artists- are able to move people to emotions 
with merely a brush stroke, carved line, or well-placed 
word. The artists of Mystwood create jewelry, tapestries, 
paintings, fine carvings, engravings, songs, books and the 
like in order to enrich the lives and coffers of the folk 
around them. Where guild crafters and master thespians 
do these things for their living, and to make a wage, 
Artists do things for the sheer joy of creation, to bring 
praise to the gods, or to celebrate the world. 

Astrologer 

Fortune Telling, Divine Lore, Information Gathering, Mage 
Lore, Production (1 Time), Research, Scribe 2, Serene 
Contemplation 

Requirements: You must possess Fortune Telling, either 
purchased or from an Occupation. Further, you must spend 
200 crown for suitable books and strange tools. 

The practice of stargazing for purposes of fortune telling 
is ancient, said to have passed to man from drowned 
Atlantis. While more humble means of fortune tellingcards, runes, and the like- rule divinatory tradition, there 
are still soothsayers who gaze upon the constellations to 
seek meaning. 

Beekeeper 

Apothecary 2, Income 10, Livery (beekeeping garb with 
mask), Occupational Spells (page 125), Production (4 Food, 
4 Life), Serene Contemplation, Swarm Magic, Wear Armor 1, 
Woodwise 

Requirements: 200 Crown, or 150 crown and possession of 
a Queen Bee. 

Honey, wax, comb, and even bee poison all have their 
uses, and so the occupation of Beekeeper is not an 
uncommon one where climate allows. Often, beekeepers 
are monks, whose dwelling cells are a mirror of the hives 
themselves. Others are hermits, content to dwell in the 
wilds quietly with their hives, protected from harm by 
the stinging swarms who are their neighbors and 
children. 

Corporal of the Guard 

Armstraining 2, Duty 2 (inspecting the Guard), Income 10, 
Leadership (Town Guard), Livery (based on local Chapter), 
Warcaster, Weapon Specialization (any one Weapon Type), 
Weapon Use (Large Shield), Wear Armor 4 

Requirements: Must be appointed to the post by the 
Captain of the Guard or a similar person after one year or 
more of service to the Guard as a Town Guard, Town Guard 
Recruit, or Gaoler. 

Any village of size requires hierarchy in their guardsmen, 
as a Captain of the Guard can’t be everywhere. Corporals 
lead groups of the regular guard, instruct recruits, make 
decisions based on questions of the Code Civitas, and 
otherwise ensure that the work of the Guard continues 
smoothly. 

Crofter 

News & Rumors, Production (2 Cloth, 4 Food, 4 Wood), 
Weapon Specialization (Tool), Work Rhythm, Woodworking 
2 

Requirements: You must obtain a grant of a forested tract, 
either by purchase, rent, or reward for deeds, and clear a 
portion. Alternately, you may be a Laborer and spend 100 
crown to build a small cottage and clear fields. 

As the borders of the Mystwood become settled, and 
small villages spring up between the trees, the crofters 
lead the settling effort. It is hard and unpleasant work, 
with little reward- cutting tracks, building mean houses, 
and eking food and profit from the forest soil. 
Nevertheless, folk do it, and it is far cheaper than 
establishing a true freehold. 

Demagogue 

Armstraining 4, Bardic Voice 4, Income 10, Information 
Gathering, Leadership (those who have joined your cause), 
News & Rumors, Unarmed Combat 

Requirements: Have a cause approved by the Game 
Masters and gain at least six followers who have sworn 
themselves to this cause. 

Not all nobles are worthy of the service of commoners. 
Not all Knights are chivalrous, all churchmen holy, all 
magistrates fair. Against these rise the demagogues, 
charismatic folk heroes whose goal is to oppose 
authority. Usually this is the selfsame corrupt authorities, 
but not always- many demagogues have opposed 
legitimate rule, with usually bloody outcomes. 

Dragon Slayer 

Battle Rage, Livery (Fantastical costume, hair and tattoos), 
Scavenging, Slayer (Beastman, Draconian, Goblin, Minotaur, 
and Troll), Wear Armor 3 

Requirements: Must slay at least 3 Draconians, Minotaurs, 
or Trolls. 

While there is but one Dragon, there are countless 
monsters who run rampant throughout Europa. Those 
who have made a habit of slaying the most powerful of 
these beings become Dragon Slayers, and find 
themselves in high demand by small villages and those 
who want exotic bodyguards. Market yourself well and 
you should be able to find employment with wealthier 
members of society. You may also be well suited for high 
paying pit fights or dangerous quests. 

Executioner 

Entertainer, Execution, Income 10, Livery (black hood), 
Occupational Spells (page 125), Poisoner 4, Weapon 
Specialization (One Handed Axe, One Handed Sword, Two 
Handed Axe, Two Handed Sword) 

Requirements: Training (100 crown) A writ of appointment 
from a landed noble. 

The majority of high crimes in Europa end in death- it is 
costly to house a criminal in a prison for too long, and 
the spectacle of a public execution is both entertainment 
and object lesson for the unwashed masses. An 
executioner, then, is as much a public servant as an 
entertainer. 

Famulus 

Armstraining 2, Iron Will, Livery (your master's symbol), 
Mage Lore, Slayer (Daemons), Weapon Specialization (any 
one Weapon Type), Warcaster 

Requirements: Must be linked in a protracted ceremony to 
a character of great magical power, such as a character with 
Passion 7+, Wisdom 7+, or as approved by the Staff. 

In Roman times, every sorcerer or summoner of repute 
had a famulus, a person bound to them as bodyguard 
and servant. As time passed, the role of the famulus has 
progressed, and now they are expected both to protect 
their magus, and correct their magical mistakes, if need 
be. 

Fence/Pawnbroker 

Buy/Sell (50), Commerce, Fence, Income 10, News & 
Rumors, Retainers 1 
and one of Information Gathering or Research 

Requirements: Must be active in the Shadow Guild for at 
least a year, and spend 100 crown establishing a network of 
contacts and traders. 

The tradition of the pawnbroker is alive and well, 
especially in the larger cities. Many people, though, find 
that sometimes there is a need for goods to quietly 
disappear. The fence also discretely finds information for 
their patrons- the right rumor can make a fence's career 
very lucrative- or end it abruptly. 

Forester/Ranger/Gamekeeper 

Pathfinding, Production (8 Wood), Weapon Specialization 
(One Handed Axe, Two Handed Axe), Wear Armor 2, 
Woodwise, Woodworking 4 

Requirements: Must be given a writ by a noble to protect 
an area of a forest and oversee tree felling. 

The Forests of Europa are lucrative resources, most 
owned by nobles for their pleasure. The beasts of the 
wood, the trees, the water, and the minerals are all owned 
by the nobility, who are often far away and unable or 
unwilling to defend their rights. Thus, most localities 
have a forester, someone who patrols the wood and 
ensures that the trees and game are free from poaching 
and theft. 

Freeholder 

Butcher, Patronage 1, Production (4 Cloth, 12 Food, 2 
Wood), Weapon Use (Flail), Woodwise, Woodworking 2 

Requirements: You must obtain a grant of land either by 
purchase, rent, or reward for deeds. Alternately, you may 
be a Herder and spend 200 crown to expand your herd. 

The wealthiest and most successful farmers and 
herdsfolk are able to set up their own freehold, an 
independent farm in the form of the latifundia of long 
ago. Such freeholders have great political power, as they 
are a major source of food and job opportunities for 
their friends and neighbors. 

Gaoler 

Duty 1 (inspecting prisoners and upkeeping cells), Income 
10, Livery (Town Guard), Occupational Spells (page 125), Set 
Trap, Weapon Specialization (One Handed Blunt, Two 
Handed Blunt), Warcaster, Wear Armor 3 

Requirements: Must be appointed to the post by Captain of 
the Guard. 

The jail keeper is not the most respected member of the 
Town Guard, but their role can be critical. Most crimes 
do not require extensive jail time, so the gaoler might be 
called on to administer certain other punishments. 

Herald 

Armstraining 2, Bardic Voice 4, Income 10, Information 
Gathering, Livery (Herald’s garb), Occupational Spells (page 
126), Scribe 2 

Requirements: Training (100 crown) and you must pass the 
examination of the College of Heralds. 

It is the College of Heralds that ratifies all new knights, 
and helps them work out a unique heraldic device- the 
symbolic colors and imagery which show all the world 
the Knight’s honor and virtue. The College of Heralds is 
also often called upon to mediate disputes between 
knights and lords, or to advise the gentry and nobility in 
matters of etiquette and protocol. 

Juror 

Bardic Voice 2, Research, Scribe 2, Serene Contemplation 
and any two of Commerce, Detect Health, Divine Lore, 
Engineering, Iron Will, Mage Lore, News & Rumors, or 
Woodwise 

Requirements: Must have been selected as a juror in a trial, 
successfully spoken on behalf of the accused and written a 
treatise on local law, or Patronage. 

Magistrates and nobles are often busy people. In many 
major cities, the selection of jurors has devolved to an 
educated elite of folk, somewhat knowledgeable in the 
laws, or at least valued for their wisdom. These semiprofessional Jurors combine legal experience with 
detective work, sticking their noses in where they are not 
always wanted. 

Knight Errant 

Armstraining 4, Income 10, Leadership (any non-Knight 
sworn to aid you), Livery (Your heraldry), Retainers 1, Wear 
Armor 6 

Requirement: You must be Knighted. 

Those who have comported themselves with honor and 
impressed the right people are knighted by an existing 
knight or a noble. Landless wanderers, knights errant 
may carry their own heraldry, create their own retinues, 
and work toward further impressing the right people and 
being granted a manor or joining an order of 
knighthood. 

Librarian 

Copyist, Research x2, Scribe 4, Serene Contemplation 

Requirements: Patronage, must be appointed to be 
caretaker of a collection of at least ten books and/or scrolls. 

Books are rare and valuable, and wherever there is a 
collection of them, there should be a librarian to protect, 
repair, and make copies of them. Some libraries are 
associated with the Church, while others are the private 
property of the wealthy. 

Litigant 

Bardic Voice 2, Battle Rage, Duelist, Livery (red surcoat) 
Toughness, Unarmed Combat 

Requirements: You must accuse a person of a crime on 
behalf of another, and then win an ensuing Judicial Combat. 

Once this has occurred three times, you may invest 50 
crown on training and equipment and take this profession. 
There are many occasions where a person has been 
wronged, but due to fear, inability to fight, or social 
standing, they are unable to make an accusation on their 
own. In some nations (notably, Navarre) there exists a 
profession of litigants, who, for pay, take up the role of 
accuser. Traditionally, litigants wear a red surcoat called 
the sendal, and are famed for being rough characters, 
their accusations and arguments more loud than learned. 

Master Thespian 

Bardic Voice 6, Master Entertainer, Income 10, News & 
Rumors, Scribe 2 
and Information Gathering or Research 

Requirements: Patronage, must have had the Entertainer 
skill in previous Occupation. 

Successful bards, minsters, dancers and other 
entertainers seek out a patron, a noble or other wealthy 
or connected individual who can finance their careers 
and help them find venues for their trade. Such master 
thespians are welcome guests in any noble retinue or 
village celebration. 

Merchant 

Buy/Sell (100), Commerce, Income 20, News & Rumors, 
Patronage 1, Retainers 2 
and choice of any one Craft 2 skill 

Requirements: You must spend 300 crown to set yourself 
up in business. If you maintain an in game “shop” or stall 
this is reduced by 50 crown, and if you are member of the 
Shadow Guild by another 50 crown. 

Nowhere in Europa is truly self-sufficient. Crafters must 
obtain raw materials and then sell their completed wares 
elsewhere. Where materials are commonplace, the market 
sells, and where they are scarce, the market buys. The 
merchant is the blood of this system, buying and selling 
goods with a shrewd eye, while making themselves 
wealthy and expanding their households. 

Miller 

Income 20, News & Rumors, Production (8 Food), Production 
(Choose one: 4 Air, 4 Water, or 3 Life), Woodworking 4 

Requirements: A grant of land and the necessary supplies 
to build a mill, or 300 crown to purchase land on which to 
build a mill. 

In nearly every village, there is a mill, whether it be a 
windmill, watermill, or turned by animals. Within this 
mill is the millstone. This nearly-magical device grinds 
the grain that makes the bread that feeds lord and 
peasant alike. The miller gets a share of this grain, which 
often suffices to keep their lives comfortable, and 
magical power, from the ever-turning ritual of the 
grinding gears. 

Miner 

Commerce, Engineering, Metalworking 2, Patronage 1, 
Production (8 Metal), Weapon Specialization (Tool), Wear 
Armor 3, Woodworking 2 

Requirements: You must find a mine and spend 100 crown 
to develop it and obtain writs. 

Most mines in Europa are ancient works, pulling copper, 
gold, salt and many other materials from the earth. It is a 
dangerous trade, though lucrative. 

Philosopher 

Loremaster, Production (2 Parchment), Research x2, Scribe 
6, Serene Contemplation 

Requirements: Patronage and 100 crown for books and 
education. 

The richest and most successful households are able to 
sponsor a philosopher, able to read and research the 
ancient texts and make new, educative observations of 
the natural world. Many philosophers have attended one 
of the great universities of Europa, such as Hectoria or 
Milan, and bring new ideas to their homelands upon their 
return. 

Physician 

Apothecary 6, Cure Affliction, Livery (doctor’s robes), 
Medicine, Occupational Spells (page 126), Research, Serene 
Contemplation 

Requirements: Patronage and 500 crown in training. 

The great universities of Europa have learned much of 
anatomy and physiology from the ancients, from 
experiment, and from necessity. At these vaunted houses 
of learning, the gentlefolk, herbalist, and barber surgeon 
are elevated to true masters of the craft of healing, 
capable of great feats of surgery and of furthering the 
understanding of the humors. 

Pit Fighter/Judicial Champion 

Armstraining 4, Battle Rage, Duelist, Entertainer, Unarmed 
Combat, Wear Armor 3 

Requirements: You must win at least 5 pit-fights (which are 
illegal) or 3 Judicial Combats and invest 50 crown in training 
and equipment. 

Pit fighting is illegal in many lands, but nevertheless it is a 
popular entertainment. On the flip side, trial by combat 
is common, but many people cannot fight to literally save 
their lives. Enter the pit fighter, or judicial champion, 
two sides of the sport-fighting coin. 
Market yourself well, and you should be able to earn a 
decent bit of coin through your duels and pit-fights. 

Poacher 

Butcher, Pathfinding, Production (3 Cloth, 6 Food), Weapon 
Specialization (Bow, Normal Crossbow), Wear Armor 2, 
Woodwise 

Requirements: You must be accepted into the Shadow 
Guild. 

Meat is an important source of food in often hungry 
Europa. However, the nobility own all the deer, all the 
bear, all the boar- the best meat. Regardless, there is a 
lucrative trade in less than legally acquired meat. This is 
where the poacher comes in. Quietly, they stalk illegal or 
merely dangerous prey to share with her fellows- or to 
make a profit. 

Quarrier 

Duty 1 (Manual Labor), Engineering, Production (4 Earth), 
Toughness, Weapon Use (Two Handed Blunt), Wear Armor 
1, Work Rhythm 

Requirements: You must find a quarry and spend 100 
crown to develop it and obtain writs. 

Mines produce the metal so critical to weapons and 
armor. The humble quarry, on the other hand, produces 
the stone which paves roads, builds houses, and fortifies 
castles. Productive quarry sites are rare, so what stone 
can be found is highly prized. Along the way, they often 
find magical components which can easily be traded for a 
fine income. 

Ruffian 

Brawler, Scavenging, Toughness, Unarmed Combat, 
Weapon Specialization (One Handed Blunt), Wear Armor 2 

Requirements: You must possess a Branding, and be a 
member of the Shadow Guild. 

Thugs, toughs, bravos, and brigands, ruffians are the 
strong spine of organized crime. Obviously intimidating 
and ready to fight at a moment’s notice, ruffians often 
have little of true value to offer society other than their 
fists and cudgels. 

Sacristan 

Blessed, Divine Lore, Research, Scribe 2, Set Trap, Weapon 
Specialization (any one), Wear Armor 2, Woodworking 2 

Requirements: Village must possess at least 5 relics, which 
are keep within a single area or safe container, and the 
sacristan must be elected or appointed to protect them. 

Villages that hold many holy relics may find that they 
require a dedicated guardian and researcher of those 
items. A sacristan also knows how to protect their 
charges. 

Sawbones 

Apothecary 4, Cure Affliction, Livery (Apron and gloves), 
Medicine, Sewing 2, Weapon Specialization (Dagger) 

Requirements: You must be a member of the Shadow Guild 
and provide 200 crown for training. If you are branded, this 
is reduced to 100 crown. If you previously possessed the 
Physician Occupation, you may waive the crown fee 
entirely. 

There are many professional barbers and doctors in the 
cities and towns of Europa, who heal and perform 
surgery on the honest population. Criminals, however, 
need to be fixed up quietly with few questions asked. 
Sawbones perform this service, and know bits of 
knifework that are, strictly speaking, not medicinal. 

Sergeant at Arms/Bodyguard 

Armstraining 6, Income 10, Leadership (retainers and 
followers of your patron), Livery (patron’s colors), Wear 
Armor 4 

Requirements: Patronage 

Nobles, magistrates, merchants, and the wealthy often 
find themselves the targets of violence. These folk must 
hire themselves guards, who can protect them when 
danger abounds. Whether such a person is called a 
bodyguard or a sergeant really depends on the style of 
the person being protected. 

Sharp 

Bardic Voice 2, Commerce, Cosmopolitan Connections, 
Fortune Telling, Information Gathering, Iron Will, News & 
Rumors, Room for More, Unarmed Combat. 

Requirements: Must win 100 crown in a single game of 
gambling, or 500 over a career. Subtract 100 from career 
winnings if a member of the Shadow Guild. 

Professional gamblers are a scourge in the major cities. 
While most gamble for entertainment, or small coin, in 
the higher social circles magic items, writs, and even 
landhold can be in the ante. 

Steward 

Buy/Sell (50), Cooking 6, Commerce, Leadership (retainers 
and followers of your patron), Scribe 2 

Requirements: Patronage 

A household is only as good as it’s steward- part cook, 
part secretary, the steward manages the household and 
purchases for their noble and the retinue. 

Theologian 

Bardic Voice 2, Divine Lore, Divine Spells, Research x2, Scribe 
4, Serene Contemplation 

Requirements: Must be ordained by the Church, and create 
a scholarly or philosophical tract on the nature of each of 
the three gods. 

Theologians are those members of the Church who 
study the lives of the Saints and the natural world in 
order to find answers regarding the plans of the gods. 

Varlet 

Duty 2 (fulfilling the requests of your master), Income 5, 
Information Gathering, Leadership (your master), Unarmed 
Combat 
and any one Craft skill 2 

Requirements: 50 crown for the purchases of necessary 
uniform and training. Must be actively employed by 
another character, PC or NPC, and willing to serve them in 
various in-game tasks. 

A varlet is a type of manservant whose primary task is to 
attend to their master's every whim, however foolish. Of 
course, varlet has come to be slang for a dishonest man, 
and many varlets have found their master's tongue 
getting them into the fistfights they are famous for. 
