Adventurer 

Agility, Scavenging, Serene Contemplation, Wear Armor 2 

Many travelers, especially children, have no real training, 
only seeking a new start where they can make money and 
set up social ties. 

Apprentice 

Agility, Apprenticeship, Duty 1 (assist master), Production X 
(any 1 Material or Component), Serene Contemplation 

For as long as any can remember, apprenticeship has 
been the normal way to learn a craft. The skills of an 
apprentice are very helpful to a master, and therefore this 
Occupation is in high demand. 
The pay is not always great, but the perks are useful. 
Relationships formed as an apprentice can last the rest of 
your life. In some cases, it might be worth offering your 
services for free until a wealthier patron comes along to 
employ you. 

Bard/Minstrel/Thespian 

Bardic Voice 4, Entertainer, News & Rumors 

Jugglers, dancers, minstrels, thespians, even puppeteers, 
these are the superstars of the Known world. Their 
performances are often the high points of folk’s 
existence, especially in times of trouble. 

Beggar 

Agility, Begging, Livery (rags and patches), Scavenging 
and one of Information Gathering or Weapon Use (Staff) 

War, famine, plague, and a host of other ills best Europa, 
and many who lose their homes and livelihoods become 
beggars, forced to seek bread and coin from generous 
folk. Such downtrodden often find themselves in rural 
villages, searching for new lives. Of course, some beggars 
are false- little better than brigand- and so beggars often 
have bad reputations. 

Dancer/Juggler/Acrobat 

Agility, Entertainer, Livery (performance costume), News & 
Rumors, Weapon Specialization (Thrown Weapon) 

Often dressed in colorful and unique attire, dancers, 
jugglers, and acrobats are popular among commoners. 
They perform a service desired by all- quality 
entertainment. They are often agile, and at times their 
performance skills will benefit them in a fight. 

Guttersnipe 

Agility, Duty 1 (assist master), Evade Trap, Production (1 
Death), Scavenging 

There are many people whose jobs are somewhat less 
than pleasant. Gravediggers, Ragpickers, Ratcatchers and 
more take apprentices just as any others do, but what is 
expected of them is entirely different. 

Initiate 

Divine Lore, Livery (robes or other religious symbols), Quick 
Learner, Serene Contemplation 

Those who join the church as youths, intending to 
become monks or priests, begin as initiates. Many are 
orphans, or the younger children of peasants who may 
not be able to afford to educate or even feed these 
additional mouths. 

Lackey 

Buy/Sell 10, Commerce, Livery (your master's colors), Quick 
Learner, News & Rumors 
and one of Serene Contemplation or Unarmed Combat 

A lackey is a servant, indispensable when skilled and 
knowledgeable, bumbling and in the way when not. 
Many lackeys eventually become sergeants-at-arms, 
stewards, or valets for their superiors. 

Page 

Agility, Income 5, Livery (your patron’s colors), Quick 
Learner, Wear Armor 2 

Amongst gentlefolk and the children of knights, youths 
are often sent to learn the arts of war. foster with other 
families. Often these pages, as they are called, are training 
to one day become squires. 

Student 

Copyist, Production (1 Parchment), Quick Learner, Serene 
Contemplation 

Many young people seek an education from the learned 
people of Europa, and become “full time” students. Such 
youths often become monks, litigants, scribes and 
philosophers in later life. 

Town Guard Recruit 

Duty 1 (inspection by Corporal or Captain of the Guard), 
Income 5, Livery (green and black Town Guard tabard), 
Wear Armor 2 

Most towns and villages boast a small contingent of paid 
guards who patrol trails, guard gates, make sure that laws 
are observed, and generally assist the local magistrate or 
lord with ready weapons. In dangerous places, young 
people are often recruited by the Guard, and nearly 
brought up by them. 

Ward 

Bestow Favor, Income 10, Quick Learner, Scavenging 

The children of knights, nobles, and priests are often 
entrusted to others for protection, especially during times 
of war when children might be exchanged as hostages. 
Often these children come to respect their tutors and 
guardians even more than their true parents after long 
years away from home.