Adventurer 

Agility, Scavenging, Serene Contemplation, Wear Armor 2 

Many travelers, especially children, who find their way to 
the Mystwood Keep have no real training, only seeking a 
new start where they can make money and set up social 
ties. New players of any age may have this Occupation 
until their third Event, after which they must settle into a 
conventional role. Players under 18 may keep this 
Occupation until they turn 18.

Apprentice 

Agility, Apprenticeship, Duty 1 (assist master), Production X 
(any 1 Material or Component), Serene Contemplation 

For as long as any can remember, apprenticeship has 
been the normal way to learn a craft. The skills of an 
apprentice are very helpful to a master, and therefore this 
Occupation is in high demand. 
The pay is not always great, but the perks are useful. 
Relationships formed as an apprentice can last the rest of 
your life. In some cases, it might be worth offering your 
services for free until a wealthier patron comes along to 
employ you. 

Baker 

Cooking 4, Income 10, News & Rumors, Weapon Use (Flail) 

Bread is the most important food for the vast majority of 
people in Europa, being the basis of nearly every meal. 
Thus, bakers are common and valued. Since many people 
come to the baker to get their bread, they are an excellent 
source of rumors. 

Barber Surgeon 

Apothecary 2, Cure Affliction, Medicine 

The practice of Medicine in the Mystwood is not for the 
faint of heart. Maladies are many and terrible, and the 
nature of the Mystwood means they progress at terrifying 
speed. Patients transform into monsters on the operating 
table, and the Barber Surgeon must take precautions to 
avoid the most horrid of afflictions. 

Bard/Minstrel/Thespian 

Bardic Voice 4, Entertainer, News & Rumors 

Jugglers, dancers, minstrels, thespians, even puppeteers, 
these are the superstars of the Known world. Their 
performances are often the high points of folk’s 
existence, especially in times of trouble. 

Beggar 

Agility, Begging, Livery (rags and patches), Scavenging 
and one of Information Gathering or Weapon Use (Staff) 

War, famine, plague, and a host of other ills best Europa, 
and many who lose their homes and livelihoods become 
beggars, forced to seek bread and coin from generous 
folk. Such downtrodden often find themselves in rural 
villages, searching for new lives. Of course, some beggars 
are false- little better than brigand- and so beggars often 
have bad reputations. 

Blacksmith 

Livery (leather apron), Metalworking 4, Weapon 
Specialization (One Handed Blunt, Two Handed Blunt) 

Blacksmiths form the backbone of the kingdom. They 
service the many knights who need a great deal of 
upkeep on their armor. A blacksmith’s use of 
metalworking is also helpful to the commoners, who 
need sturdy arrows for their bows. 

Boatman 

Buy/Sell 10, Income 5, Production (1 Water), News & 
Rumors, Work Rhythm 
and one of Cosmopolitan Connections or Scavenging 

In a Europa where roads are uncommon and often 
plagued by brigands, river travel is common, cheap, and 
reliable. Most settlements are no more than a day or 
two's travel from the sea, or from a river, major routes of 
trade and vital lifelines. Boatmen are those sturdy folk 
who ensure that small, distant settlements continue to 
receive finished goods from the outside world, and that 
the raw materials gained from the wilds are easily 
obtained by the rest of the Known World. 

Butcher 

Butcher, Cooking 2, Livery (bloodstained apron), Toughness 

Even peasants in Europa eat a great deal of meat, but 
few know the ins and outs of cleaning and preparing it 
for consumption. Thus, the butcher’s trade is invaluable. 
Butchers require good strength and health in order to 
move heavy carcasses, and so they are often surprisingly 
tough. 

Clerk/Forger 

Copyist, Production (2 Parchment), Scribe 4, Serene 
Contemplation 

Clerks are employed by many wealthier individuals, 
though some offer freelance services. They are skilled in 
the art of writing and record keeping. Clerks are never 
without a few sheets of quality parchment. 

Courier 

Agility, Income 5, News & Rumors, Pathfinding, Scribe 2 

For most, alas, mobility from their villages and farms is 
difficult at best, and deadly at worst. The threat of raiders 
and beastmen keeps many behind shuttered window and 
palisade. What, then, of missives which must be sent 
from lord to vassal, or merchant to factor? Such is the 
role of the courier, whose quick feet and cunning eye 
allows them to move about quickly, and spread 
information on the strange places and half-heard news 
they encounter in their travels. 

Dancer/Juggler/Acrobat 

Agility, Entertainer, Livery (performance costume), News & 
Rumors, Weapon Specialization (Thrown Weapon) 

Often dressed in colorful and unique attire, dancers, 
jugglers, and acrobats are popular among commoners. 
They perform a service desired by all- quality 
entertainment. They are often agile, and at times their 
performance skills will benefit them in a fight. 

Folk Healer 

Apothecary 2, Cure Affliction, Detect Health, News & 
Rumors 

Folk healers include such cunning men, midwives, witchdoctors and field medics that assist with minor home 
remedies, childbirth, and wound care to villages and 
households too small to maintain a professionally trained 
person. While most would go to a barber-surgeon for a 
bleeding, or to an herbalist for a poultice, the folk healer 
is sometimes sought after for advice as much as 
medicinal wisdom. 

Fortune Teller 

Fortune Telling, Income 10, Mage Lore, News & Rumors, 
Serene Contemplation 
and one of Bardic Voice 2 or Scribe 2 

The future is a riddle many seek to answer, and they are 
willing to pay handsomely for any clues to what lies 
ahead. A successful court astrologer can earn tremendous 
wealth, and even village fortune tellers are quite well off. 
Alas, seers are also viewed with great suspicion, which 
can make this career quite risky. The notion that they are 
all charlatans is sometimes bandied about, and more dire, 
some believe they make their predictions come true with 
dark sorcery. 

Gentlefolk 

Bestow Favor, Income 10 
and choose any 2 of the following: Bardic Voice 2, Cooking 
2, Divine Lore, Information Gathering, Research, Scribe 2, 
Serene Contemplation, or Sewing 2 

Gentlefolk (ladies in waiting, gentlemen of leisure and so 
on), are those who are well off enough to not have to 
work for a living, and so choose not to. Usually they are 
the children of knights, but not knights themselves, 
having chosen not to pursue the path of battle. 
Sometimes, they are those who have made a small 
fortune in the past, and are now taking advantage of that 
wealth. Some are pure charlatans, who use their bearing, 
glib conversation and clothing to make themselves 
welcome in the castles and feast halls of others. 

Gravedigger 

Engineering, Income 5, Occupational Spells (page 126), 
Production (1 Death Component), Slayer (Undead), Weapon 
Specialization (Tool), Woodworking 2 

In a time where death can come at any moment, due to 
plague, famine, or violence, gravediggers have the solemn 
duty of burying the deceased. Due to their proximity to 
the dead, each gravedigger has their own unique methods 
of avoiding sickness or curse. Traditionally, a gravedigger 
wears dark colors, black in most cases, out of respect for 
the dead. 
Grave digging is a very lucrative profession ever since the 
plagues came to Europa. Few dare to handle the bodies 
of the dead for fear of affliction, so those brave enough 
to dispose of them are well compensated. 

Herbalist 

Apothecary 4, Cure Affliction, Mage Lore, Woodwise 

Herbalists are the chemists of these blighted ages and 
play an important role in healing those who are afflicted 
by ailments. Their ability to brew and identify many 
powerful potions and poisons makes them a source of 
knowledge. 

Herder 

Pathfinding, Production (2 Cloth, 6 Food), Wear Armor 1, 
Woodwise 

The staple of all communities are the herdsmen and 
women. They provide fresh meat and cloth for their 
fellows by nurturing a hearty flock. The creatures herded 
by these individuals vary considerably- while most herd 
sheep, goats or pigs, others herd more unique animals. 

Hermit 

Apothecary 2, Cure Affliction, Divine Lore, Scribe 2 

There are many strange people who live in the woods, 
and little is known of why they seek solitude. Perhaps, 
within nature, they are able to hone their fine skills in 
brewing, or perhaps they seek the rarest elements, herbs 
and plants. In any case, a hermit can be a very valuable 
companion when coerced out of their solitude. They 
tend to have communion with the gods, and can cure 
diseases that barber surgeons seldom are aware of. 

Hunter 

Butcher, Pathfinding, Production (2 Food), Weapon 
Specialization (Bow, Normal Crossbow), Wear Armor 1, 
Woodwise 

In the thick woods it is hard to find a suitable place for 
farmland, and so, hunting is a primary form of food 
gathering. Hunters are hearty individuals who know how 
to take care of themselves. One never knows whether the 
hunt will lead to a more or less harmless deer, or a 
ferocious wild cat. 

Laborer 

Duty 2 (Manual Labor), Engineering, Income 5, Toughness, 
Weapon Use (Two Handed Axe or Two Handed Blunt), 
Weapon Use (Tool), Work Rhythm 

For many people, daily life is one of toil and back 
breaking tedium. Nevertheless, fields must have drainage, 
roads must be leveled, walls built and repaired, and so 
on. These tasks can only be solved by application of 
manual labor, and it is the Laborer who performs such 
duties. 

Lackey 

Buy/Sell 10, Commerce, Livery (your master's colors), Quick 
Learner, News & Rumors 
and one of Serene Contemplation or Unarmed Combat 

A lackey is a servant, indispensable when skilled and 
knowledgeable, bumbling and in the way when not. 
Many lackeys eventually become sergeants-at-arms, 
stewards, or valets for their superiors. 

Lay Cleric 

Divine Lore, Divine Spells, Income 5, Religious Ceremony, 
Serene Contemplation, Wear Armor 3 
and one of Warcaster or Weapon Specialization (your choice 
of One Handed Blunt, One Handed Sword, Two Handed 
Blunt, or Two Handed Sword) 

Messengers of the gods, these individuals are often 
leading members of communities. They are battle ready 
to serve their god, and are capable of harnessing powers 
that allow them to cast spells while wearing armor. They 
give fiery and thoughtful sermons, while reminding 
everyone of the true enemies: Chaos and Undeath. 

Locksmith 

Engineering, Income 5, Set Trap, Weapon Use (Staff), 
Woodworking 4 

With civilization comes profit, and with profit comes 
thieves. Locksmiths are usually tasked to open locks 
other people have set, but the slowly growing populace 
of middle class folk in Europa calls on knowledgeable 
folk able to help safeguard wealth. 

Novice Monk 

Divine Lore, Livery (robe or habit), Research, Scribe 2, Serene 
Contemplation 

Monks are among the wisest and most learned of people 
in Europa. Somber and determined, they serve the 
Church and their neighbors. They tend to dress in dull 
tones and have an aptitude for book learning, a very rare 
thing in a society with few who can read well. 

Peddler 

Buy/Sell (50), Commerce, Income 10, News & Rumors, 
Pathfinding 

Most merchants don’t begin with a store of their own, 
they need to build up connections and develop a 
reputation. To do this, they travel near and far, buying 
and selling what merchandise they can easily transport. 

Penitent 

Battle Rage, Blessed, Divine Lore, Livery (icons of faith), 
Weapon Specialization (Flail), Weapon Use (Flail) 

Penitents are the fanatics of the Church, usually former 
sinners, but sometimes merely those who are willing to 
accept great pain on behalf of those who sin and do not 
recant. They are often travelers, spreading their faith. 
Some turn to self-flagellation, whereas others try to 
embrace higher degrees of reason in order to spread their 
faith. Others still are rather quiet and keep to themselves, 
completing their spiritual journey alone. 

Ragpicker 

Duty 2 (Clean up trash), Production (any one Material), 
Scavenging, Weapon Specialization (Tool) 
and one of Toughness or Weapon Use (Polearm) 

Somewhat higher than beggars in the hierarchy of 
civilization’s castoffs, ragpickers exist in every town of 
any real size. They carry trash from houses to the 
midden, peddle what things can be repaired, muck 
stables, and help the ratcatchers and guardsmen fight 
against such goblins and rats who frequent dumps. 

Ratcatcher 

Engineering, Livery (rats or rat symbols), Occupational Spells 
(page 126), Poisoner 2, Set Trap, Slayer (Vermin) 

In the realms of Mystwood, rat catching is serious 
business. Not only do rats and similar vermin spread 
disease and devour vital food supplies, but when touched 
by Chaos they can grow to enormous size and devour 
livestock, pets and children. At times, great hordes of rats 
sweep across the land, overwhelming villages, leaving 
only well gnawed bones behind. The common folk hate 
and fear rats, and the ratcatcher is thus a figure of both 
admiration and dread. 

Squire 

Income 10, Wear Armor 4 
and one of Armstraining 4 or Metalworking 2 

In Europa, becoming a knight is often the best way for a 
free commoner to escape the lower classes and become 
important and famous. Choosing the path of the squire is 
one of the best ways to begin the journey to knighthood. 

Street Vendor 

Buy/Sell 10, Cooking 2, News & Rumors, Scavenging 
and one of Metalworking 2, Sewing 2, or Woodworking 2 

Every village market has vendors selling food and 
trinkets. Street vendors are often considered a lesser sort 
of merchant than even a tinker or peddler, but their 
unique mix of wares can be valuable. 

Tailor/Leatherworker 

Duty 1 (mending and patching), Medicine, Sewing 4 

Fine cloth is often in short supply in the darker parts of 
the kingdom, but many there are in need of leather 
working and animal hides are easy to find. Talents in 
stitching can sometimes aid in tending battle wounds as 
well. 

Tavern Keeper 

Cooking 2, Drinks on the House, Duty 1 (minding the 
tavern), Income 10, Information Gathering, News & Rumors, 
Sell Drinks 

In the year 930, some 40 years ago, a vile Chaos cult 
nearly brought down the barony of Wickshire in Navarre 
by distributing tainted wine at a series of festivals. Many 
died as the vile spirits took effect. Since that time, 
brewing of any sort has been a closely guarded noble 
monopoly, carried out by licensed brewers. Taverns, 
however, need staff to sell such wares, and many a village 
exists only because it is in a convenient location to stop, 
spend the night, and have a drink. 

Tinker 

Armor Repair, Buy/Sell (30), Commerce, News & Rumors, 
Scavenging, Tinkering 

The tinker is a wanderer, repairing pots and sharpening 
knives, trading old clothes and scrap, and generally 
keeping poor villages which never see a true merchant 
alive. Much lore and myth has evolved about the tinker, 
and in many lands to harm one is extremely bad luck. 

Town Crier 

Bardic Voice 2, Duty 1 (shout proclamations you have been 
hired to, or seditious blather), Income 10, Information 
Gathering, News & Rumors, Unarmed Combat 

Sometimes a loud mouth is just another loud mouth, 
getting into brawls at the tavern, spreading nasty rumors, 
and inciting riots… Other times a person with a good, 
booming voice is an upstanding member of the 
community, shouting news, gathering people for 
meetings, and helping to sell a merchant's stock. It’s up 
to you which one you’ll be. 

Town Guard 

Duty 1 (inspection by a Corporal or Captain of the Guard), 
Income 5, Livery (based on local Chapter), Warcaster, 
Weapon Specialization (any one Weapon Type), Weapon 
Use (Large Shield), Wear Armor 3 

Most towns and villages boast a small contingent of paid 
guards who patrol trails, guard gates, make sure that laws 
are observed, and generally assist the local magistrate or 
lord with ready weapons. 

Woodsfolk 

Duty 1 (gathering firewood), Weapon Specialization (One 
Handed Axe, Two Handed Axe), Wear Armor 1, 
Woodworking 4, Woodwise 

Trees all around, yet wood is still scarce. All living trees 
are property of nobility, and cannot be cut without a 
special writ. This makes the job of a woodswoman 
challenging at times. Nevertheless, good carpentry skills 
are essential to the survival of any outpost- the walls of 
buildings and keeps are always in need of repair. 
