Absolution [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You may offer Absolution to those of your faith, if you deem 
they have performed a true penance. See the rules in Religion. 
Agility [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You have unusual flexibility, and are full of surprising 
maneuvers and flourishes. You may only use this skill when 
unarmored. You may call “Disengage” once per Renew. In 
addition, a number of times per Renew, you may “Resist” a 
Damage call from any single arrow, crossbow bolt, spell packet, 
or thrown weapon (basically anything that moves through the 
air). The number of Resists depends on your weaponry: 
3 Resists: Armed only with a dagger, thrown weapon, or 
hand crossbow. Other hand free. 
2 Resists: Not using a shield, not using a two handed 
weapon or bow. 
1 Resists: Using a two handed weapon, a crossbow, a shield, 
or otherwise “encumbered” at your discretion. 
Apothecary X [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You possess the Apothecary Craft Skill, and have a certain 
number of Craft Points per Day. If purchased with Moonstones 
or the Talent Advantage, this provides (or adds) 2 Craft Points. 
Only one Craft Skill may be purchased with Moonstones. See 
page 91 for a more detailed description of Apothecary. 
Apprenticeship [Unavailable] 
You are skilled at assisting others and at learning trades. Once 
per Day, you may help another with a Craft Skill. While doing 
so, you may call “Bestow 2 Craft Points”. Once per Event, you 
may ask a person with a Craft Skill to set you a challenge or task 
related to their Occupation or a Craft Skill. If you complete it, 
you may request a Moonstone from the Staff. 
Armor Repair [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Metalworking Craft Skill or the Tinkering 
Ordinary Skill to use this skill. You may spend a unit of Metal 
and a 30 count of role play refitting and repairing an armor 
piece on a conscious character to call "Heal 3". 
Armored In Faith [Minor, 5 MS, Once] 
If you currently possess at least 1 Karma, you gain 1 Armor 
Point. This does not stack with any other armor. 
Armstraining X [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You possess the Armstraining Craft Skill, and have a certain 
number of Craft Points per Day. If purchased with 
Moonstones, this provides 2 Craft Points. Only one Craft Skill 
may be purchased with Moonstones. See page 92 for a more 
detailed description of Armstraining. 
Artistry [Unavailable] 
True artists can imbue their crafts with almost supernatural 
beauty. A character with Artistry may spend Craft Points from 
any Craft Skill they possess to embellish their created items with 
exceptional traits, as follows: 
* 1 CP may be spent to imbue an item with an Air, Earth, 
Fire, or Water Component. 
* 1 CP may be spent to attach a tag which reads: ‘Forsooth, 
upon your first time reading this tag and looking at this item, 
‘Compel to stand in awe for a thirty count by Will’ as you are 
overcome by emotion.’ 
* 2 CP may be spent to add a Life or Death component. 
* 2 CP may be spent for a tag reading: ‘Forsooth, upon your 
first time reading this tag and looking at this item: ‘Torment 
by Will’ as you are overcome by emotion.’ 
* 3 CP may be spent for a Karma or a Chaos component. 
* 4 CP may be spent for a Time component. 
The character spends the Craft Points, then notifies Staff to 
obtain the necessary Components or Karma. After the item is 
created, any Components attached may be removed from the 
item and used by characters with the appropriate skills, as 
normal. 
Bardic Magic [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
Requirement: Bardic Voice AND Gift of Wisdom 
You have learned the musical magic of the ancient Bards, and 
may cast the spells listed on pg 127 under Bardic Magic. 
Bardic Voice X [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You possess the Bardic Voice Craft Skill, and have a certain 
number of Craft Points per Day. If purchased with 
Moonstones, this provides 2 Craft Points. Only one Craft Skill 
may be purchased with Moonstones. See page 93 for a more 
detailed description of Bardic Voice. 
Basic Weaponry [Free] 
You can make use of the following Weapon Types: Dagger, 
One Handed Axe, One Handed Blunt, One Handed Sword, 
One Handed Tool, Two Handed Tool, and Normal Crossbow. 
You may not throw Daggers without the Gift of Dexterity. 
Battle Rage [Unavailable] 
Once per Day, you may spend a 60 count whipping yourself 
into a state where you are beyond pain and fear. Battle Rage 
lasts up to 10 minutes. During this time you may call “Resist” 
against any one Effect. In addition, you add 3 Hit Points to 
your maximum. This is not a Bestow, as it ends in 10 minutes, 
but these Hit Points may be healed. 
Battlemage [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
Requirement: Warcaster 
To purchase this skill, you must first have the Warcaster skill. 
You may cast spells while wearing any amount of physical 
armor, up to your normal Wear Armor maximum.
83 
Begging [Unavailable] 
Many are the unwashed beggars who plague the towns and 
villages of Europa. Some few are beggars blessed and able to 
thank their benefactors in mysterious and supernatural ways. A 
character who has Begging may, when given a donation, allow 
their benefactor to draw from a marble bag containing 3 white, 
1 red, and 2 black marbles. 
* The draw of a black marble has no additional effect. 
* The draw of a white marble results in an immediate "Heal 
1" Effect for the benefactor. 
* Most valuable is the draw of a red marble, which results in 
the "Bestow 1 Karma" Effect for the benefactor. 
A target character may draw from a Begging bag no more than 
once per Day. 
Beloved of the Forest [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Forest Ally and Treewalk advantages and 
the Wild Heart disadvantage to use this skill. Once per Day, you 
may kneel or lay down upon the ground or against a tree for a 
60 count to call "Heal to Self”. 
Bestow Favor [Unavailable] 
Twice per Day, you may give someone a token, such as a scarf 
or glove, before a battle or adventure. You may then call 
“Bestow one Resist any Effect”. 
Blessed [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You may use one Karma per Event, though you do not receive 
a tag for it and cannot save it for the future. See the Religion 
section. 
Brawler [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Unarmed Combat skill to use this skill. 
You gain the ability to use two 30" Fists. These represent your 
fists or kicks. See page 41 for more information. 
Butcher [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You receive 6 Salvage Tags per Event. Each time you role play 
butchering an Animal (Must be unintelligent, not using 
weapons, speaking, etc.), you can activate one tag, as either one 
unit of Food or one unit of Cloth (hide). Only one person can 
butcher any given animal. Unused tags may be returned for 1 
Crown between Events in your Post Event Letter In addition, a 
Butcher may use a Tool to call "Death to Animal" on an animal 
that is peaceful and not resisting. 
Buy/Sell X [Minor, 5 MS, Multiple] 
Even in peaceful times, only the hardiest of peddlers and 
merchants will brave the treacherous roads far from the larger 
towns. Even those who do will not be successful without a 
good knowledge of when and where goods are likely to be 
available, what reasonable prices are, and where buyers can be 
found with actual coin to spend. 
The Buy/Sell skill represents this knowledge. You may use this 
skill once per Event, at a time of your choosing. Bring a list of 
items you want to buy or sell and the coin to do so to the Staff 
operations building. This represents interaction with an offboard NPC merchant. See page 139. 
If purchased with Moonstones, each purchase grants Buy/Sell 
10 at your Home Chapter, and Buy/Sell 5 at others. 
Carry Wounded [Free] 
You are able to carry an Unconscious character. Hold your arm 
out and call “Carry”. You may then move with the target at a 
slow walk. If you, or the target, are struck by any Effect, you 
must drop the target. Call “Purge Carry”. 
Commerce [Minor, 5 MS, Once] 
You know how much things are worth, and can read Flags 
marked “Commerce” which may reveal the value of various 
items, and perhaps a little about their history or origin. 
Cooking X [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You possess the Cooking Craft Skill, and have a certain number 
of Craft Points per Day. If purchased with Moonstones, this 
provides 2 Craft Points. Only one Craft Skill may be purchased 
with Moonstones. See page 94 for a more detailed description 
of Cooking. 
Copyist [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
Once per Event, a character with this skill may spend 5-10 
minutes role playing copying a spell text, a cure, or another ingame text which possesses a Copyist note. Make a note of this 
in your PEL, and you will receive an exact copy of the text at 
the next Event you Preregister for. 
Cosmopolitan Connections [Standard, 10 MS] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
At your Home Chapter during check in, you may randomly roll 
on the following chart of goods, which represents a trip to a 
nearby major city between Events. There, you either lucked into 
some wealth, or tried your hand at thievery. 
2 Savagely beaten by street hooligans! -1 Maximum Hit 
Points for the next Day. 
3 One unit of Air or Earth (roll a die, 1-3 Air, 4-6 Earth) 
4 One Tool of character's choice (Cloth, Metal, or Wood) 
5 1-2 units of Metal 
6 1-2 units of Wood 
7 1-2 units of Food 
8 1-2 units of Cloth 
9 1-2 units of Parchment 
10 1d6 Crown 
11 One unit of Fire or Water (roll a die, 1-3 Fire, 4-6 Water) 
12 One item with Merchant Buy cost under 8 crown 
(player's choice), or one Chaos, Death or Life 
component 
For units of Material (5-9), make a second roll of one die. On a 
1-4, one unit is obtained. On a 5 or 6, two units are obtained. 
Cure Affliction [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You have sufficient basic medical knowledge to attempt to cure 
afflictions- various curses, diseases, infections, taints, etc. The 
known cures can be found within the Library. You should role 
play the cure, expend any ingredients required, and then state 
the name of the cure. As the person afflicted cannot tell you the 
name of their affliction, there is a bit of guesswork involved 
here. Fortunately, given the medical texts available, virtually any 
affliction is curable… eventually. 
Detect Health [Minor, 5 MS, Once] 
Once per Renew, by sizing an opponent up for a few moments, 
you may call the “Detect Health” Effect.
84 
Divine Lore [Minor, 5 MS, Once] 
You know much of the lore of the gods, and of your own in 
particular. You may read Flags marked Divine Lore. If they are 
marked with the name of a god, however, you may read them 
only if it is the god you have chosen to worship. 
Divine Spells [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
Each faith has a body of lore that allows them to cast spells. 
You may not use these skills without possessing the Gift of 
Wisdom. Divine Spells may be found on page 125. 
Drinks on the House [Unavailable] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
Once per Event, you may offer free drinks to up to 6 people. 
They will gain the “Renew” Effect as normal. 
Duelist [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
Once per Day, when you enter into a formal, single combat 
against a worthy foe (no use challenging rats), you “Renew” 
your abilities. However, you must have formally accepted your 
challenge, you must fight fairly, and you must fight to the death. 
Duty X [Standard, 10 MS] 
This Ordinary Skill may normally only be used at your Home 
Chapter, but see below. 
Some professions are humbler than others, and have tasks to 
perform that although necessary, may not be glamorous. 
However, when you fulfill a “shift” (15 to 30 minutes) of your 
Duty, you “Renew” your abilities. This skill is useable a limited 
number of times per Day, as noted in the Occupation. If 
purchased with Moonstone, you may perform the Duty once 
per day, and the Duty’s description must be approved by Staff. 
A Duty does not travel, unless you are hired to perform that 
role by a PC or NPC at the Chapter you are visiting. 
Engineering [Minor, 5 MS, Once] 
You understand the construction of buildings and structures. 
You may read Engineering flags, which might reveal hidden 
compartments, unstable walls, secret doors, and so on. 
Entertainer [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
Jugglers, dancers, minstrels, thespians, even puppeteers, these 
are the superstars of the Known world. Their performances are 
often the high points of folk’s existence, especially in times of 
trouble. Once per Event, you may give a performance lasting at 
least 10 minutes. At the beginning, you select a group of no 
more than 20, and state “Forsooth, I grant you the trait 
Audience for the duration of this performance.” At the end, 
you may call “By my Voice, Renew to Audience”. 
Unless permission is granted by an NPC, this Skill may not be 
used during a battle or adventure. 
Evade Trap [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
Once per Day, you may call “Resist” against a trap, as you role 
play jumping out of the way. You may not wear physical armor 
while using this ability, but may use natural armor or Livery. 
This stacks with the 8th Level ability from the Gift of Dexterity. 
Execution [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
You gain the ability to make one “Death” strike against any 
person you meet who has been legally sentenced to death and is 
unarmed. You may also spend 1 Fire Component to call 
“Afflict with Branding” after suitable role play with a branding 
iron. This must also be used against someone legally convicted 
of a crime. 
Fence [Unavailable] 
You gain 2 Craft Points per Day, which may be used for the 
Bardic Voice, Poisoner, or Scribe Craft Skills with the following 
limitations: 
* You may only perform or make items which cost 0 or 1 CP. 
* Fence is not a “Craft Skill” and you cannot gain more Craft 
Points for it using other abilities which improve “Craft Skills” 
most notably Craft Kits. 
Flee [Unavailable] 
Once per Renew, as long as you are running or moving quickly 
away from your enemies, you can call “Resist” against any 
melee attack. You cannot use any other skills or abilities and 
must run toward safety, not away. You can’t dodge spells or 
missiles with Flee resists, and Flee can’t be used while wearing 
more than 2 points of physical armor. 
Fortune Telling [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You may tell another's fortune using cards, runes, etc. They 
must first cross your palm with silver, of course. Three times 
per Day, this may have potentially renew your target. This takes 
about 5-10 minutes, at the end of which you may call “Renew”. 
However, you must have certain cards, runes or the like that 
signifies very bad fortune. If that card/rune/etc. is drawn, you 
do not call Renew, and must instead say “I curse you to take 
double damage from all attacks in your next battle”. The odds 
of drawing the “bad” effect should be about one in ten. 
Fully Armored [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
Once per Event, you may put on and wear any amount of 
armor. This skill’s effect lasts until you remove the armor, or 1 
hour has passed, whichever comes first. 
Grant Karma [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You may, after private conference, award Karma to those of 
your faith. The rules for doing so are in the Religion section. 
Guild Wages [Unavailable] 
Your skill in crafts demands a higher rate of pay. When utilizing 
the “General Income” crafting ability, you may obtain 2 crown 
for 1 CP, rather than merely 1 crown. 
Hagsblood [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You must possess both the Evil Eye and Witchblood 
advantages to use this skill. Once per Day, you may call "Charm 
by Gesture" after locking eyes with another character for at 
least a 10 count. 
Improved Battle Endurance [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Gift of Courage. You may add 1 to the 
number of times you may use Battle Endurance per Renew. 
85 
Improved Battle Rage [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Battle Rage skill to use this skill. When in 
a rage, you are even more of a terror. You may "Resist" any two 
Effects, instead of one, and gain the ability to call “Heal Three 
to Self” once prior to the end of your rage. 
Improved Burst Casting [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
 Requirement: Gift of Passion 
You may increase your Bursts per Renew by 1. 
Improved Bestow Favor [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Bestow Favor skill to use this skill. When 
you provide a token, it provides both "Bestow one Resist any 
Effect”, and “Bestow one Heal 3 to Self”. 
Improved Butcher [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Butcher skill to use this skill. You gain 3 
more Butcher Tags per Event. 
Improved Duelist [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Duelist skill to use this skill. When 
entering into a formal duel, not only do you "Renew" your 
abilities, you gain a single additional Special Attack to use 
during the duel. 
Improved Instruction [Major, 15 MS, Multiple] 
You must possess the Instruction skill in order to use this skill. 
You gain 3 more Skill Tokens to teach to others per Event. 
Improved Leadership [Minor, 5 MS, Once] 
You may use Leadership 4 times per Renew instead of 2. 
Improved Resistance [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Elemental Resistance Advantage to 
purchase this Skill. You add a second element which you may 
Resist, and gain a second use per Renew. 
Improved Scavenging [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Scavenging skill to use this skill. You gain 
3 additional Salvage tags per Event. 
Improved Storm Casting [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
 Requirement: Improved Burst Casting 
You may increase your Storms per Renew by 1. 
Income X [Minor, 5 MS, Multiple] 
You receive the indicated number of crown per Event. 
If purchased with Moonstones, each purchase grants an income 
of 5 (or +5) crown per Event. Purchased Income does not 
Travel, but Income from an Occupation does. 
Increased Mana [Standard, 10 MS, Multiple] 
You must possess the Gift of Wisdom to purchase this skill, 
and may purchase it up to three times. Each purchase adds one 
to your Maximum Mana. 
Information Gathering [Standard, 10 MS] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
This skill represents your character’s ability to track down 
people who might know something about a particular subject 
you are looking for information about. This is a “plot skill”- it 
does nothing during Events, but if you submit a Post Event 
Letter within two weeks of the Event, you may indicate the type 
of information you are looking for. If someone is available in 
the nearby area who possesses this information, they will 
arrange to meet you in game. The success of your search is up 
to the Staff and depends on available time, how much 
information you have to guide your search, and how reasonable 
your goal is. In some cases, you may gain some information, but 
not actually locate someone. Note that, for dangerous or illegal 
information, Information Gathering will alert the NPC 
character that you are looking. Also note that, if a fellow PC 
possesses the information sought, they may be notified instead 
of or in addition to an NPC. 
Instruction [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
Everyone has certain skills they possess, but few are capable of 
teaching those skills to another. A character with Instruction, 
however, is a skilled teacher. At check in, you receive three Skill 
Tokens- limited Moonstones that function only for the 
purposes of a specific skill. You may use these Skill Tokens to 
instruct others in the skills you possess, with the following 
rules. 
It takes 30 minutes of training to grant 1 Skill Token to another, 
and each lesson should cost at least 5 crown in coin or barter. 
The teaching time may be split up over the course of an Event. 
* A 5 MS skill may be trained up to 1 Skill Token per Event. 
* A 10 MS skill may be trained up to 2 Skill Tokens per 
Event. 
* A 15 MS skill may be trained up to 3 Skill Tokens per 
Event. 
* Unavailable skills may not be taught with Instruction. 
Skill Tokens obtained from Instruction may be supplemented 
with Moonstones for the actual purchase of the skill. 
Iron Will [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
Once per Renew, you may call "Resist" to an Effect which was 
delivered "by Will”. 
Joy of Life [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Gift of Empathy. Once per Day, you 
may spend a single use of Healing Hands to call "By my Voice, 
Heal One to Unstable”. If “With Malice towards None” is 
active, you may instead call “By my Voice, Heal One.” 
Knockout [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You add “Knockout” to the list of your Special Attacks for 1H 
Blunt, 2H Blunt, or Tool Weapon Types. This must be 
delivered from behind and must strike the back. See the Gift of 
Dexterity. 
86 
Leadership [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You gain the ability to call “Heal 2 to ___ by Gesture”, 2 times 
per Renew. Note that the Occupation description specifies who 
this applies to- others cannot voluntarily place themselves in 
your service to take advantage of this skill. You can do this by 
offering a few words of encouragement, threatening 
consequences, and so on, but you cannot use it while suffering 
from the “Silence” Effect, or when the person you wish to heal 
is Unconscious. If purchased with Moonstone, you must 
choose how these followers are linked to you: those whom you 
employ, those who follow your Faith, or any other connection 
which is approved by the Staff. 
Literacy [Free] 
You are able to read and write. 
Livery [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
While wearing a certain manner of dress, or the colors and 
heraldry of your sponsor, you gain 1 extra Hit Point. If you 
purchase Livery with Moonstones, it must strongly represent 
your Occupation, and be approved by the Staff. 
Loremaster [Unavailable] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
Once per year, a character with this skill may utilize Research to 
create new items of in game lore, such as alchemy recipes or 
spells. You must write a proposal for the effect of the spell or 
other lore item and submit it to your Chapter’s Staff. If 
approved, you will receive an in game write up of the item, 
which will be added to the game's Library as an item which can 
be researched. If not approved, you may submit a new item. 
Staff may choose to edit the properties of the item. The item 
may be added to libraries across Chapters, at Mystwood 
discretion. 
Mage Lore [Minor, 5 MS, Once] 
You are aware of spirit essences, invisible runes, ghostly 
presences, magical taints, etc. You may read Mage Lore Flags at 
will. 
Master Entertainer [Unavailable] 
You may use the Entertainer skill Once per Day, instead of 
Once per Event. 
Masterwork [Unavailable] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
A master crafter involved in the Guild may further their field 
and expand their craft. Once per year, if you are signatory to a 
Craft Kit, you may design an item with abilities and costs, draw 
up plans, and submit it to your Chapter’s Staff. If approved, you 
will receive an in game patent for the item, which will be added 
to the game's Library as an item which can be produced. If not 
approved, you may choose to submit a different item. Staff may 
choose to edit the properties of the item. For the first year, only 
the Master Crafter who created the item may make it, after 
which, any crafter in the region (Chapter) may produce the item 
if they are familiar with its template. The item may be added to 
crafting charts across Chapters, at Mystwood discretion. 
Medicine [Unavailable] 
You gain additional Immediate items which you may use 
Apothecary CP on. These items are listed on the Apothecary 
list at the end of the table on page 91. 
Metalworking X [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You possess the Metalworking Craft Skill, and have a certain 
number of Craft Points per Day. If purchased with 
Moonstones, this provides 2 Craft Points. Only one Craft Skill 
may be purchased with Moonstones. See page 95 for a more 
detailed description of Metalworking. 
News & Rumors [Minor, 5 MS, Once] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
You receive a general write up of what is going on in the area at 
the start of each Event, with a few extra rumors thrown in that 
may or may not be true. 
Occupational Spells [Unavailable] 
Some Occupations have spells which aid them in their work, a 
mix of hedge magic and true Sorcery. You may only use these 
spells if you have the Gift of Wisdom. See page 125 for more 
information on Occupational Spells. 
Pathfinding [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
You can find your way to distant locations in the bearby area, 
navigating the many treacherous paths of the hinterlands. This 
is a “plot skill”- it does nothing during Events, but if you 
submit a Post Event Letter within two weeks of the Event, you 
may indicate 3 locations, in order of preference, that you would 
like to find your way to. 
Examples could be “The ruins we visited where we found the 
six eyed hag”, “The goblin encampment I’ve heard rumors 
about”, “Any stone monolith”. You can also choose to search 
for certain monsters or persons- “A medusa” or “The bandit 
Chief Bolo the Red”. The success of your search is up to the 
Staff and depends on available time, how much information 
you have to guide your search, and how reasonable your goal is. 
In some cases you may gain some information but not actually 
locate anything. If you are successful, a Grey Wanderer will seek 
you out when it is time to journey to the adventure in question 
AT THE NEXT EVENT YOU ARE PREREGISTERED 
FOR. This is very important- unless you sign up for an Event, 
no adventure will be planned. 
Patronage X [Unavailable] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
Once per year, you may sponsor X people into Advanced 
Occupations which require Patronage, such as Philosopher or 
Physician. This represents you using your influence and wealth 
to enable them to pursue their studies, rather than having to 
work for their survival. 
Poisoner X [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You possess the Poisoner Craft Skill, and have a certain number 
of Craft Points per Day. If purchased with Moonstones, this 
provides 2 Craft Points. Only one Craft Skill may be purchased 
with Moonstones. See page 96 for a more detailed description 
of Poisoner. 
Precision [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
To use this skill you must possess the Gift of Prowess. You 
may add "5 Damage" to the list of Special Attacks you are 
capable of performing with any melee weapon. 
87 
Production X (Type) [Unavailable] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
You are able to gather, harvest or otherwise obtain 
Components or Materials of the indicated type between Events 
(for example “5 Metal”). Your production will be provided to 
you at check in. You may need to advise the Staff at that time. 
Quick Learner [Unavailable] 
Once per Day, you may spend 10 to 15 minutes role playing 
learning a skill from another to gain one Skill Token in that 
skill. They must possess the skill they are teaching, of course. 
This is in addition to any Skill Tokens you might have gained 
from the character if they possess Instruction. 
Religious Ceremony [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
Once per Day, you may organize a religious ceremony. After 
this ceremony, lasting 10 to 15 minutes, you may choose one of 
the following Effects. 
The call is “By my Voice, ___ to Follower of <god>.” 
* Heal and Renew 
* Bestow one Special Attack 
* Bestow one Resist Magic 
Those pledged to other gods may attend the ceremony, but 
must be respectful and somewhat apart from the faithful. 
Unless permission is granted by an NPC, this Skill may not be 
used during a battle or adventure. 
Research [Unavailable] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
The plot skill Research is used between Events, primarily to 
gain helpful information and clues about Chronicles. Books and 
items which can be researched will normally be marked with a 
tag stating "Research", the topic that the item may be be used to 
research on, and an NPC that the research must be directed to. 
Some categories of items, such as Relics, may be researched 
without a specific tag on them- the rules for doing so can be 
found elsewhere in this Rulebook, or in the addendum rules for 
that particular topic. Lastly, an NPC may directly advise you 
during game that a topic can be Researched- if this occurs, they 
will advise you to whom the Research should be directed. 
To use Research, you must submit a Post Event Letter, where 
you may list the question or topic you are interested in, the 
source material you are utilizing (if any), and the NPC the 
research is to be directed to (if any) 
At the next Event you Preregister for, you will obtain a research 
scroll with your results. A research scroll is an in game, 
registered item that can be lost or stolen. Players are encouraged 
to place their research scrolls into a library or similar repository, 
but are not required to. The Staff reserves the right to change 
or simply revoke a research scroll if it turns out that it causes 
problems to game balance or lore. 
Retainers X [Minor, 5 MS, Multiple] 
A number (X) of loyal servants and retainers may wear your 
colors or symbol, gaining the “Livery” skill. If they already had 
the skill from their occupation this does not add any benefit. If 
purchased with Moonstones, each purchase provides 1 retainer. 
Room for More [Unavailable] 
After a thirty count of calling for gaming, drinking, etc., you 
may spend 1 Bardic Voice CP to call "To Room, Compel 
Carouser to (play a game/drink/party)". This skill may not be 
used if there is combat occurring within line of sight. 
Scavenging [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You are not afraid to loot the dead for items others would not 
wish to touch. Each Event, you will receive 3 Salvage tags at 
check in. You may activate one tag as Cloth, Food, or Metal 
Material when you loot a body. The creatures must be 
appropriate to the type of Material- you cannot loot Food from 
an Undead, but could loot Metal from a construct. 
You may also “destroy” an item tag that has not expired, 
replacing it with one Unit of Cloth, Metal, or Wood, which you 
or another must use immediately. You must use your judgment 
as to what the item initially was made from- arrows are unlikely 
to render into Cloth, for example. This does not require Salvage 
Tags and may be done at will. 
* You may make better use of the Village Midden Waystone, 
sifting through the thrown away items in the town dump. 
Once you have activated a tag, you should check off the 
Material type, and stow the tag in a sack with various scraps and 
oddments. You also may not scavenge from someone who has 
already been picked over by another. 
Scribe X [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You possess the Scribe Craft Skill, and have a certain number 
of Craft Points per Day. If purchased with Moonstones, this 
provides 2 Craft Points. Only one Craft Skill may be purchased 
with Moonstones. See page 97 for a more detailed description 
of Scribe. 
Sell Drinks [Unavailable] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
You may sell licensed ‘booze’ (usually actually soda, iced tea, 
etc.) of various sorts at the Tavern. These drinks have various 
effects, which you pronounce on the person buying them 
(usually “Renew”, but others are possible). Drinks may not be 
sold during battles. Taverns in most lands are owned by the 
local nobility, and so the game money paid for drinks must be 
returned to the NPC building (but see Tavern Share). 
Serene Contemplation [Minor, 5 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Gift of Wisdom to use this skill. 
You may reduce the Mana cost of some spells, as long as you 
have not physically attacked someone with a weapon during the 
current Day. Damage from spells and summoning is allowed. 
Any spell which costs more than 2 Mana costs 1 less. For 
example, 4 Mana spells cost 3, while 3 Mana spells cost 2, etc. 
Set Trap [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You can arm and re-arm traps, or move them and set them in 
new locations. Only traps with a tag can be moved with this 
skill. 
Sewing X [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You possess the Sewing Craft Skill, and have a certain number 
of Craft Points per Day. If purchased with Moonstones, this 
provides 2 Craft Points. Only one Craft Skill may be purchased 
with Moonstones. See page 98 for a more detailed description 
of Sewing. 
88 
Shifter Senses [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Skin Changer Advantage to purchase this 
skill. Once per Renew, you may call each of the following 
Effects once: “Detect Animal”, “Detect Vermin”, and “Speak 
to Animal”. 
Slayer (Type) [Unavailable] 
You gain the ability to call one “Special Attack” against each 
creature of the indicated type you encounter. When you have a 
creature in sight, but are not sure if it is actually of the proper 
sort, you may call “Detect (Type)”. You may not shout this, and 
can use this ability only to confirm that the monster is of the 
kind you slay, not to find hidden creatures. This skill may be 
used even without possessing a Gift which provides Special 
Attacks. 
Standard Bearer [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
Requirements: Livery of a particular group such as a 
Knight’s retinue, the Town Guard, etc. as approved by Staff) 
While carrying the heraldic colors of your organization, you 
gain the choice of a few abilities pertinent to assisting your 
fellows. Any one of these abilities may be used per Renew. 
* “Heal One to <Group>”. 
* “By my Voice, Bestow one Resist Will to <Group>”. 
* “By my Voice, Bestow 1 Mana to <Group>”. 
A standard must be a sizeable banner of at least 2’x2’ on a pole 
at least 6’ long. While bearing the standard you may only defend 
yourself with a one handed weapon, or use a shield. 
If your standard is struck by an enemy, you must call “Torment 
to <Group> by Will.”. If it suffers Shatter or you suffer Disarm 
and drop it, you must spend a 300 count of role play repairing 
and cleaning it before it may be used again. 
Stench of the Enemy [Minor, 5 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Eternal Foe disadvantage to use this skill. 
Once per Day, you may call "Detect Daemon", “Detect Fae”, 
or "Detect Undead", depending on your Eternal Foe. 
Sunder [Major, 10 MS, Once] 
Once per Event, you may call “Shatter” with a two handed 
attack. 
Swarm Magic [Unavailable] 
Through long practice communing with the hive, you are able 
to remove and suspend some of your bees in ensorcelled 
pouches, called "Beekeeper's Bags". To create one requires 1 
Cloth Material, and 1 Air, 1 Earth, and 1 Life Components. 
Once created, the item holds 10 "1 Damage" packets, 
representing the stings of your beloved bees. 
Tarot Mortis Punchinello [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You must possess the Gift of Dexterity. You may add a card 
representing Harlequin’s rival Punchinello to your deck. It is 
represented by a Clubs card (if the dedicated Punchinello card is 
not available), and if drawn, results in “Maim all Limbs”. 
Taunt [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
This skill requires Bardic Voice to use. Once per Day, you may 
engage a foe in an insult match. After they have gotten worked 
up, you may call “Frenzy at me by Will”, sending them into a 
rage and forcing them to attack you. You may only use this on 
someone who has shouted insults BACK at you, and whom you 
feel you have gotten the better of. 
Tavern Share [Unavailable] 
This Ordinary Skill may only be used at your Home Chapter. 
At the end of an Event, you gain 5% (1 in 20 crown) of the 
crown accumulated from the sale of drinks and other items at 
the tavern, or 5 crown, whichever is higher. If you are not 
present for cleanup during an Event, you gain the 5 crown 
regardless at next check in. 
Tinkering [Unavailable] 
You gain 2 Craft Points per Day, which may be used to make 
items from the Apothecary, Metalworking, Sewing, and 
Woodworking Craft Skills, with the following limitations: 
* You may only make items which cost 0 or 1 CP. 
* Tinkering is not a "Craft Skill", and you cannot gain more 
Craft Points for it using other abilities which improve "Craft 
Skills", most notably Craft Kits. 
Toughness [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You add 1 to your maximum Hit Points. This is cumulative 
with additional Hit Points from either the Gift of Courage or 
Prowess. 
Unarmed Combat [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
Twice per Renew, you may throw a packet at an opponent 
within melee reach and call “Subdue”. 
Use Two Weapons [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You may use a weapon of up to 42” in length in each hand. 
Note that the Gift of Dexterity also provides this skill. 
Wages of Sin [Minor, 5 MS, Multiple] 
You must possess at least one Chaos Mark. At check in, you 
will recieve 1 Warpstone. 
Warcaster [Standard, 10 MS, Once] 
You may wear 1 Armor Point while casting spells. You must 
possess Wear Armor 1 or better to benefit from this skill. 
Weapon Specialization (Type) [Standard, 10 MS, Multiple] 
You gain one additional Special Attack per Renew with the 
indicated weapon type. You must have a Gift which provides 
Special Attacks to make use of this. You may purchase this with 
Moonstones multiple times, each time obtaining Specialization 
with a single weapon type from the table on page 40. 
Weapon Use (Type) [Standard, 10 MS, Multiple] 
You are able to use weapons of the indicated type, even if you 
do not have the Gifts normally required to do so, or it is a 
restricted weapon type. Each purchase provides a new type of 
weapon from the list below: 
Bow Large Shield 
Flail Polearm 
Hand Crossbow Single Throwing Weapon 
Javelin Staff 
Other Weapon Types must be learned from Gifts or 
Occupations. Remember, many Weapon Types (all except 
Claw, Fist, Flail, and Large Shield) can be obtained from the 
Gifts of Courage, Dexterity, or Prowess. See Basic Weaponry 
for the list of Weapon Types all characters may use. 
89 
Wear Armor X [Minor, 5 MS, Multiple] 
Allows you to wear X Armor Points, which add to your Hit 
Points. In order to gain these points, you must actually be 
wearing enough realistic looking armor to warrant it- see the 
Armor section on page 37. Purchasing this skill with 
Moonstones provides the ability to wear 1 Armor Point for 
each purchase, which stacks with your Occupation. A character 
with an Occupation which cannot wear armor would thus get 
Wear Armor 1, while a Town Guard would have a total of Wear 
Armor 4. 
Woodwise [Minor, 5 MS, Once] 
You may read Flags marked Woodwise, which represents your 
ability to commune with nature, and see things others may miss. 
Woodworking X [Major, 15 MS, Once] 
You possess the Woodworking Craft Skill, and have a certain 
number of Craft Points per Day. If purchased with 
Moonstones, this provides 2 Craft Points. Only one Craft Skill 
may be purchased with Moonstones. See page 99 for a more 
detailed description of Woodworking. 
Work Rhythm [Unavailable] 
You are used to long days of labor with oar, shovel, hammer, or 
pick, and have thus developed your own rhythms for working. 
This affords you a benefit in combat. When armed with a 
weapon of the following types, every third strike which 
successfully hits a weapon, shield, or your opponent may be 
called as "2 Crushing". If any of your strikes miss, you must 
start the three strikes over. Allowable types are One Handed 
Axe, Two Handed Axe, One Handed Blunt, Two Handed 
Blunt, Flail, or Tool. 
